To this edition of the Yahowah Vlog,
I'm your host, Craig Wynn.
We are going to continue our series on
the Mother Goddess.
In this case,
we're going to delve deeper into the
events of Gan Eden,
the narrative that God provides turns out
to be prophetic of many of the...
issues that have been raised by this cult
that has sought to discredit Yadda and
Yadda Yahowah.
And God had a lot to say about
them, and it was not kind.
But before we go there, since Dowd,
our Messiah and King, known as David,
Our savior and returning king had a lot
to say of them as well.
He recognized that he was the tree of
lives and that I am the tree of
knowledge as it relates to Yahowah's plan
and that we are intertwined.
And so he is the one who use
the verbal root of tree,
which is at say it at saw is
the feminine of tree is how it's used
in the presentation of the children.
Speaking of the answer,
that is the tree of knowledge.
The verbal root is atzah.
It's written identically in the Hebrew.
It's just vocalized slightly differently.
But it is the actionable root that defines
tree.
And here it is.
This is what Dowd used it to say.
And the one who closes,
the one who shuts out, this is atzah,
the advice and counsel.
regarding the totality of the plan and its
purpose as the instruction is provided
after consultation and calculation to all
to assist in the decision making process
after thoughtful deliberation.
Their eyes to the proper and full
accounting and the overall determined
value of the thoroughly considered and
recording courted plan.
That one.
Nothing more than an annoying insect.
Malicious, blood-sucking mosquito.
And hypocritical pursuit of slanderous and
malicious speech.
So someone who would try to foreclose on
the tree of knowledge,
on the Etza Da'ath, who is the Choder.
Therefore, on Yada and Yada Yahowah.
That one,
according to our Messiah and King is like
an annoying insect,
a malicious blood sucking mosquito and
hypocritical pursuit of slanderous and
malicious speech.
Hallucinating and confusing in a perverse
and irrational manner.
Becoming entirely evil
Determined to advance that which is
completely wrong.
Doing so in the end and thereby perishing
in their depravity.
That comes from Mashal, Word Pictures,
Proverbs, sixteen thirty.
You can rest assured,
particularly after our.
venture into the thirty-third, fourth,
and fifth Psalms, the Mismore of Dowd,
that our Messiah and King is fully
appraised of the hideous actions of this
mother goddess cult, and he is disgusted,
as is God.
And it tends to hold them accountable and
wants us to present these prophetic
insights
regarding them to annul everything that
they have attempted to do.
So God hasn't heretofore,
as he has presented the conditions in the
garden,
missed an opportunity to paint portraits
with words.
So we should expect nothing less going
forward.
After introducing the fellows who would
serve humanity over the next six thousand
years as the tree of lives and the
tree of knowledge,
he turned his attention to the man that
he conceived to benefit from them.
It reads, Yahowah Almighty,
relationally grasp hold of the man, Adam,
and he settled him restfully in the Gan,
the sheltered and protective garden of
Eden, of great joy and pleasure,
total satisfaction.
To work it.
To labor in her.
To serve within it and cultivate it.
And to closely observe and carefully
consider it.
To pay close attention.
This is Abad and Shemar.
These are the things that Adam did not
do.
He was not observant.
Not at all.
He did not
work there's no indication he did anything
that could be considered valuable that he
made no contribution he was conceived to
be observant and to make a contribution
and he did neither so it's important that
you know how he was introduced most people
don't know that Adam was specifically
conceived and placed in this sheltered
garden
so that he could make a contribution,
so he could abide, so he could work,
and so that he could closely examine and
carefully consider what was there.
This is what God wanted.
This is what God expected.
This is what God wants from you and
me.
This is what he expects from you and
me,
for us to make a contribution and for
us to be observant.
If you are not these things,
You will not be invited back into the
garden when he reopens the doors to a
larger garden, our planet,
on the seventh of October,
beginning of Sukkah in twenty thirty
three.
This is from Bare’syth,
Genesis two fifteen.
Well, clearly,
fathers look like they grasp hold of their
children so that they can stand up and
walk with them, that said,
There are five hands in Yahowah's name.
I don't know if you know that,
but there's two men standing up,
reaching up.
Each of them have a pair of hands.
And then you have Yahowah's hand with his
upper arm coming down,
his forearm reaching out with an upper
hand being extended to those two people
standing up, reaching up in his name.
So there are five hands in Yahowah.
Yahowah's name,
with the largest of them reaching down and
out to the people in his shim so
that he can grab hold of us and
lift us up as fathers are wont to
do.
It's a verbal picture of God's intent,
even in his name.
That's why it was a shame to have
erased it as the religious have done.
Continuing to tie these stories together,
after introducing the central cast,
Yahowah used Nuach settled spiritually to
foretell how the Ruach spirit of Yahowah
would Nuach al-Hu settle upon and remain
upon the man serving as the Choter.
Read Yasha'yah eleven and you will see that
it is the spirit of Yahowah and the
seven spirits that Nuach
settle spiritually upon the Choter as the
Tree of Lives,
just as they're being presented here.
Now,
the realization that Gan is from Ghana and
means to shelter, to protect,
to cover and defend,
reminds us that the intent of Sukkah,
shelters,
is identical with that which is being
presented here because it is from the
verbal root Sakak.
which is defined identically, shelter,
protect, cover, and defend.
The name of the garden, of course,
we know is Eden, and it means joyous.
The letters forming this delightful
moniker reveal that the doorway to life
can be seen here.
A marvelous pictorial presentation of what
God was trying to achieve,
especially since he asked us to be
observant.
The doorway to life can be seen here.
Now,
this means that we find Dowd as the
tree of lies because he opened the door
to life on Passover when he fulfilled it
in thirty three C.E.
in his second of three lives.
We are reminded that this man was
conceived to abide, to work with God,
to make a contribution.
And that means that we should as well,
whenever and wherever we are planted.
It is our highest calling in life, Moshe,
Toad, Elia, and Yada.
We all serve as examples of men whose
lives are committed to collaborating with
Yahowah.
and doing whatever he requests.
And as we know from the Torah,
God's foremost request of us is to shamar,
to be observant.
What's the purpose of being observant?
You look with your eyes,
you see the very testimony of God,
you ponder it, you come to conclusions,
you come to learn, to know,
and to understand.
And so you're in a position to have
an intelligent conversation with God,
to do as God would have us do,
to learn from him, to grow.
These are the purposes of being observant,
closely examining and carefully
considering his revelations.
When we do these things, we're rewarded,
as has been the case with examining these
events pursuant to the garden.
We will be rewarded for closely examining
them, carefully considering them,
particularly how the characters in this
story relate to one another.
and even the trees as central characters
in this narrative.
Now, right from the onset,
as a caring father,
Yahowah provided instructions for us to
follow such that our lives might be long,
productive, and fulfilling.
This is the very first thing communicated
between God and man.
And you'll notice that Yahowah did the
talking such that Adam listened.
This is the pattern God established for
our benefit.
And while we remain on the earth,
it continues.
In other words, stop praying.
Start listening.
If you're yabbering to God to tell him
all the things you want,
you are not part of his family.
He is not listening to you.
It is our responsibility to listen to God
and then to respond accordingly.
If you don't listen to him,
and you're talking to him, praying to him,
then I can assure you,
you are not on the same page with
the Almighty.
Yahowah, who is God, he provided direction,
he instructed,
he spoke clearly and unequivocally with
authority to benefit and equip the man on
an ongoing basis,
written in the appeal and perfect third
person, masculine singular,
concerning the man.
saying from every tree of ha Gan of
the sheltered garden you may continually
and actually eat from every tree you can
continually and actually eat you can
genuinely devour and consume consistently
and enthusiastically being fed and
nurtured call infinitive call imperfect
imperfect means ongoing
This was not a one-time event.
You can consistently and continually eat
every tree in the garden.
They had the opportunity to take their
choice.
When Yahowah shared this instruction in the
Peel and Perfect, He revealed it,
what was really just for man's benefit.
saying that it would affect his life in
a meaningful and ongoing way just
depending on how he responded to it this
is to say that the shawa the direction
and instruction was enabling and
sustaining moreover as a friendly reminder
throughout we find Yahowah speaking in a
masculine singular voice which is
important now while it's a subtle
Al actually means that God was over the
man as well as in proximity before him.
That is important because God can't become
a man.
God is not a man.
God was present only in the sense that
a tiny aspect of his nature was projected
into this environment.
Further, as we know,
ha-Adam is literally rendered as the man,
whereas Adam is simply a transliteration
of the Hebrew noun for man.
Now, before we press on,
you'll notice that Yahowah said that Adam
could eat from any tree in the garden
with a call, eat,
repeated twice for emphasis,
absolutely and unequivocally, eat.
This is important because Chawah
misrepresented this instruction in her
discussion with Satan.
And then addressing the tree of knowledge,
a call was negated and not repeated,
buttressed by the imperfect conjugation to
say,
you should not make a habit of continually
eating from it.
This is because as a consequence during a
day,
you will absolutely die with Muth repeated
to underscore this consequence.
Also, please note,
Yahowah's subsequent instruction pertained
exclusively to the tree of knowledge.
This is because he didn't want its purpose
preempted or its fruit consumed before the
door to life was opened.
However, God continued, from the tree,
the etz, this productive,
upright life with firmly embedded roots
and branches,
which reach up to absorb the light of
the sun.
From etza, as we know, and etza,
to provide counsel and advice through
diligence and effort on the entirety of
the plan for the purpose of developing a
backbone while overcoming challenges to
advocate a proper response.
of , of the knowledge, of awareness,
of skillful acquisition of important
information through observation,
along with the exercise of good judgment,
leading to understanding,
the ability to make rational connections
between appropriate aspects among
discernible and discoverable evidence,
by being discriminating, perceptive,
and judicial.
It's a noun that is based upon the
verb yada, to know in a relational sense,
becoming aware and familiar of Tob,
of good, proper, productive, and pleasing.
Tob is that which is beneficial and
prosperous, correct and truthful,
favorable, enjoyable, desirable,
and agreeable,
moral and right, valuable, worthy,
even beautiful, generous, pleasant,
festive, joyful.
All of these things are taupe.
And also of raw, bad, wrong,
troubling and harmful.
Raw is evil and wicked pertaining to
corrupt compatriots.
Yeah, raw is also one's associates,
those that you group together with.
Fellow mosquitoes, if you will.
Morally inappropriate, malignant,
and disagreeable rhetoric from loudmouthed
associates,
words and actions which are of no value,
depraved, displeasing, and malicious.
Do not make a habit of continuing to
eat.
Low a call.
Do not habitually devour or consume.
Call imperfect.
from it or out of him men who
because of him masculine singular as a
consequence because as a result by
During that day,
by defining and describing yourself as
having consumed it, here is, ,
devouring by you will actually and
eternally destroy you because of ,
it's the call infinitive where the verb
takes the attributes of a noun and the
construct form, a literal verbal noun,
binding the action to you you will become
what you eat you will come to personify
death if you do and you will die
ceasing to exist forevermore you will
perish removed from the living eternally
destroying your soul by reshith in the
beginning genesis to since there was no
religious
No political,
no conspiratorial corruption in the
garden.
There were no militants, lies or liars.
There was no merit in pursuing an
education on what's wrong with these human
contrivances.
As someone who has written thirteen books
systematically refuting Christianity,
Judaism, and Islam,
I know that the process of excoriating
these plagues is laborious.
It's frustrating.
Indeed,
it can be miserable and exasperating at
times due to the proliferation of logical
fallacies and immoral principles.
And it is of limited utility.
since there are far too few who capitalize
on the monumental undertaking and many who
viciously condemn the result.
And yet, Yahowah recognizes that today,
Babel, twistianity, and goddamn religion,
there's thirteen books under the Yadda
Yadda series, free at yadda.com,
are actually required reading.
because the clutter must be cleared away
for the truth to be seen.
What was deadly then is now essential.
Yada Yahowah and the Yahowah vlog have quite
literally become the tree of knowledge
without which there is no way back to
Dowd and the tree of lives.
And this is why we're told that
prematurely devouring it would be
destructive,
leading to continual and unrelenting
death.
My good friend, Rich,
the king of the cables,
has recognized he's got a little scratchy
throat and he brought me even more green
tea.
It wasn't that kind of effect because of
the scene that he had displayed here.
You saw him walk around the studio.
Now you know for certain that this camera
that is panning the great outdoors,
that this camera, if I see, I see,
I just touched it with my hand.
That's at the end of my desk.
That is the view that we have now
over my left shoulder.
I'm looking at exactly that same view with
that light ball that's, uh,
floating around in the swimming pool and
the ocean in the background.
It is a lovely setting that we get
to broadcast these programs.
It's like being in our own Garden of
Eden.
I'll pay more attention next time.
I'll pay more attention next time before I
walk.
I bet you didn't know that you were.
You were doing something.
I'm just pointing out that it was
considerate of you and kind of you to
recognize that I did have a scratchy
throat and that it's good that I have
more green tea to resolve that.
So here we are.
We've been told by Yahowah they can eat
anything they want, free will and all.
But with this one tree,
it happens to be the tree of knowledge.
God says nothing about the other tree.
The tree of lives premature.
He just said on this one tree,
if you eat from it prematurely at this
time, the consequence is death.
It's premature.
You are not going to take the fruit
of this tree before this tree is is
ready to offer its fruit.
And this tree isn't actually ready to
offer its fruit for six thousand years.
It's coming up.
Yeah.
Some thirty two years shy of six thousand
years to be exact.
This tree was called back into action and
began it began to grow to offer its
fruit on Taruwah in two thousand and one.
So we are now twenty four years into
the production of the fruit of the tree
of knowledge.
It is all being shared with you under
this series.
This is the Yada Yahowah series to know
Yahowah,
rather appropriate title for the the tree
of knowledge.
This is the first of thirty five books.
And that series is called An Introduction
to God, which sounds appropriate,
doesn't it?
This is volume one.
It is the bottom words.
Thirty four volumes follow this one.
And so it just wasn't time yet.
It would be another almost six thousand
years before the tree of knowledge would
sprout up.
And that tree of knowledge was introduced
again by the great prophet Isaiah.
When he spoke of the Choter,
the Choter is a stem off of the
main branch used as a.
as a title to describe stem branch sucker
to describe that.
Yes, this is a tree.
Those are things all related to trees.
And it then says the next thing it
sees rooted, deeply rooted Shoresh,
which trees are, that he is a Nazir,
which means that he is an observant
branch.
Again, another tree reference.
And among the,
seven spirits that are offered to him.
The fourth and the fifth are Etza,
the tree of Da'ath.
knowledge.
Uh,
so clearly when we're speaking of the
Choter, uh,
he is the one who is Parah, uh,
specifically we're told that he is Parah,
which means he's fruitful and productive.
He is the tree of knowledge and that
tree of knowledge would not be called into
action to bear fruit until it was time
to be consumed by Israel so that they
would understand what was right and wrong
about things like Judaism and their, um,
their issues related to politics and not
trusting Yahowah as well as what Yahowah's
message was actually all about all along
so what was of negative consequence
prematurely is now essential Yahowah this
Yahowah vlog i have become the tree of
knowledge and without them there is no way
back to dote to david because
I was the first to present Doe David
as the tree of lives,
affirming that he fulfilled Pesach,
which opened the doorway to life,
and that he lived three lives,
two of which already,
and the third one upcoming with his return
with Yahowah on the day of reconciliations
in twenty thirty three.
Now,
this is why we are told that prematurely
devouring this tree and this fruit before
it had a chance to take root,
to grow, to flower,
to develop would be deadly.
It's the reason why you may be aware
that there's a statement in Bamidbar,
Numbers,
that after Yahowah goes to great lengths to
describe the role of the ram, Dowd,
the bull, Yada, and the goat, Elia,
in the restoration of his people.
He goes through a whole dissertation on
this because they need to be restored
because this is right after the spies
claimed that they saw Nephilim in the
land.
There was no Nephilim,
but they're speaking of their own fall.
Now fall means to fall.
It's going to play right off of this
story where God caused the fall and the
fall of man.
And he said that everyone over twenty is
going to die.
And they did, except for two men,
two men that were exceedingly courageous
and bold.
But all of the others,
particularly those that saw the imaginary
giants in the land,
they were going to die.
And that left only those who were under
twenty years old to wander forty years in
the wilderness to get their act together
so that they could finally be taken to
the promised land.
And at the end of
that narration,
we have Yahowah presenting the plan of
restoration with the ram, bull,
and the goat.
A very detailed and inspiring,
uplifting presentation in Abedbar Numbers
fifteen.
I've done a program here on the Yahowah
blog about it.
Then that transitions into God speaking of
a man
who on the Shabbat,
which would be the seventh day,
and we're approaching that now,
uprooted two trees.
He didn't pick up sticks,
as it is claimed,
that he uprooted etz trees.
And in the process of doing that,
Yahowah said, no, no, no, that won't work.
You need to kill him.
You need to understand how serious an
affront this is to my plan.
These trees cannot be uprooted before
their time.
Without these trees, there is no way back.
You need the tree of lives.
You need the tree of knowledge.
And there it is right there in the
midst of the Torah and a very descriptive
presentation indeed of precisely why you
can't deflower
and consume this fruit of this tree before
it's ready.
It's counterproductive.
And without it having the chance to grow
and develop and produce its fruit to be
productive,
this would be fruitful and this would be
inspired by the seven spirits of the Yahowah
as that tree.
Then there is no way back to Dowd
because no one knows what Dowd
accomplished opening the door to life.
So this is very,
very serious with the Yahowah.
So anyway,
that is exactly how it would all transpire
with Yediyah,
reintroducing mankind to God's plan to
enable the breath through the Mikra as
prescribed in the Torah and fulfilled as
portrayed throughout the Nabi prophets.
Without this knowledge,
there is no salvation.
There's no reconciliation.
There is no eternal life.
The lesser luminary would have to serve as
a sign of the moab to reflect the
sun's brilliance.
Since we must address the realization that
once introduced,
nothing more is said about the tree of
lives,
let's continue to pursue the reasons that
fruit of the tree of knowledge was
protected by God
why it was coveted by satan because it
is the tree of knowledge then that would
introduce the tree of lives and this is
going to also explain why Chawah coveted it
too and with that in mind i think
the answer is fairly obvious without dyath
presented by yada and yada Yahowah
No one on earth is aware of what
Dowd accomplished by fulfilling Chag
Matzah.
So it's not only that Dowd became the
tree of lives,
is that without Yada Yahowah and Yada
disclosing that to you in these
thirty-five books, all free at yadaya.com,
no one knows what he accomplished.
There is no eternal life for anyone.
And since God chooses to work through
people in this regard,
he chose these two trees.
He discussed them and introduced us to
them.
Six thousand years ago.
And they're just now being properly
identified.
So without being aware of what Dowd
accomplished by fulfilling Chag Matzah in
particular,
there is no entry into God's covenant
family.
And without Yada Yahowah,
no one knows that Dowd fulfilled Chag
Matzah,
much less even realizes what Chag Matzah
represents.
That is the fruit of Yada, the Choter,
and Yada Yahowah.
Literally, without this knowledge,
there would be no Shabuwa Katsir.
That's a harvest.
There would be no Teruwa Lakat.
That's a gleaning.
The purging of the adulterous woman
representing the mortal remnant of
religious Israel would not happen.
There'd be no family reunion for the king
on Yom Kippur and thus no homecoming and
therefore no restoration of Gan Eden or
return to it on Sukkah.
None of it happens.
The human experience and experiment
would be for naught.
As such, Et-Da'ath and its Choter,
the stem off the main branch,
who would become the living embodiment of
the tree of knowledge, well,
he was worth protecting by Yahowah to give
him time to learn and to bear fruit.
And this explains why Satan and Chawah
covered it, why they wanted to control it,
why they chose to devour it
thereby eliminating its para,
productiveness.
This story is about painting a picture of
the parameters and environment Yahowah
favors to enjoy the kind of relationship
he envisions with mankind.
This is something God wants us humans to
do.
because a select few of us are being
afforded the opportunity to return to this
Gan Eden.
And for this to occur,
the tree of knowledge must be restored and
explored.
It must bear this fruit.
Also, this narrative explains how, why,
when,
and where man's relationship with God was
destroyed.
This is something which must be understood
of course, if it is to be restored.
You have to know where you went wrong
to get it right.
For this to transpire,
the lessons that very few have considered
must be presented such that they are
understood and that the instruction then
becomes actionable, tangible, rational.
This is the reason Yahowah was written.
making it evident that it has become a
tree of knowledge.
Please, pay attention.
And if I may, this volume,
the most recently published,
speaks of all that's going to occur over
the next eight years,
so that you're in a position to capitalize
upon the Shibuwa harvest,
so that you're there as...
Someone acknowledging and contributing to
the Teruah gleaning so that you're
celebrating the sacrifice of the Adamah
Parah on the twenty-fourth of September of
twenty thirty-three,
year six thousand YAH.
And are among those cheering the return of
Dowd as the Messiah and King, our Savior,
with Yahowah on Kippurim,
this homecoming and family reunion.
So that we can take responsibility for the
mortal remnant of Yisrael that is allowed
to reenter the Garden of Eden.
And we can instruct them based upon the
tree of knowledge.
So this narrative that God is providing,
it explains the how, the why, the when,
the where.
a man's relationship with God and how it
was destroyed.
It was actually destroyed by as much by
omission as commission.
As I said,
Adam really didn't listen to God.
He didn't respond to God's instructions.
He didn't work.
He was a deadbeat.
He was a dependent.
He couldn't be trusted.
And he did what he was asked not
to do.
Mostly crimes of omission with one of
commission.
Now,
this is something all of which must be
understood if it is to be restored.
For this to transpire,
the lessons few have considered must be
presented such for the first time they can
be understood.
And the instruction then becomes,
as I've said, actionable.
This is the very essence of Yada Yahowah.
It's why it was written.
It's why it's available to you free at
yadaya.com.
It is absolutely and unequivocally the
tree of knowledge.
Etza Dayat.
Now, equally insightful,
every story that we have returned to
reconsider in the Torah,
God's presentation has turned out to be
prophetic.
While also historic,
every narrative was presented for the
benefit of those who experienced it,
not for those that experienced it,
I should say,
but for those who are listening now.
This narrative had no value whatsoever for
Adam and Chawah.
Didn't change their lives one iota.
It's for us.
And clearly it had no influence on the
children of Israel during the Exodus and
all the way to this point,
because there's not a single aspect of
what I'm sharing with you that two
millennia of rabbis have been able to
deduce.
None of it.
It's all for us right here, right now.
So while historic,
we are the beneficiaries.
We are learning from it now as never
before.
So realizing this,
Yahowah was able to convey the events in
the garden in a manner that would resonate
with us, would guide us at this time.
And doing so when the situation is now
dire and the lesson is essential and
without it,
the whole human experiment is for naught.
Now,
this is why Yahowah spoke of the Choter
as he did through Yasha'yah,
making one story of the two and explaining
one with the other.
The Choter is the tree of lives.
That's why the Choter, the very sap that
comes up through those roots to nourish
the tree and the light of the sun
representing Dowd that cause it to grow
and to produce its fruit.
It's all enabled by the seven spirits of
Yahuwah.
The narrative on the Choter was Yada's
coming out party.
It was the moment I went from anonymous
to name character in God's story.
Returning back to Eden,
I now have a full understanding of why
that is.
I will accept my responsibility.
I will be as productive and fruitful as
is possible.
I will stand the storm.
I will be like that marvelous tree that
you'll see in the broader shot that stands
over my left shoulder.
The one that has weathered the storms and
stood beside the sea for all to see.
Well,
in this narrative on a man and a
woman of God and the adversary of two
trees,
knowledge becomes the star of this show.
It leads to life.
And it is only when we come to
appreciate the interactions between these
individuals and ascertain their intent and
their contributions that we find purpose
in our lives.
And so by featuring the tree of knowledge
as the lead character throughout this
story,
both in the closing and the opening scenes
of this narrative from our God,
pursuant to the events of the garden,
we are being invited to come full circle
from the garden to the garden,
from the tree to the Choter.
It is from its roots buried long ago
that a Choter sucker would emerge bearing
fruit again,
this time in Yadda Yahowah to reacquaint
the world with Dowd as the tree of
lives.
And to remind everyone who wants to have
a relationship with God,
what God is seeking from them.
To work with him,
to contribute to the relationship,
to be observant,
carefully considering everything that God
has laid before us.
And then to be responsible,
to be reliable, to be trustworthy,
to be someone he can trust off of
this planet.
Now,
while I've made this point previously,
it remains relevant to note that Yahowah
communicated his instructions to Adam,
to the man.
But there's no indication he communicated
directly to Chawah.
He didn't, well, in this case,
she didn't even exist at this time.
The implication is not only that Adam was
conceived to learn from God,
but also that Yahowah seems to prefer
communicating through and working with
men.
It would be the man's responsibility to
share Yahowah's instructions with women.
Now,
if you think that that's being sexist,
then let me tell you how I responded
to something that I read today.
I shared this in passing in our Ocean
Studio.
I have returned to the chapter prior to
this one and Baba Rashid Genesis one,
speaking to the fourth day.
And on the fourth day,
Yahowah introduces two men who he calls
luminaries.
Their job is to be enlightening,
to share illumination,
And what he calls both of these men
who are signs of the Mow'ed,
the Mowedym actually,
the restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimony.
And therefore signs,
which would be something that would be
written, a sign of the Mowedym.
I've written three volumes just on the
seven Mowedym.
And that these are the two men who
would actually fulfill them.
Though Pesach, Matzah, and Bikuwrym, Yada,
Shabuwah, Teruah,
working together on Kipurym and
intertwined as the tree of lives and
knowledge on Sukkah.
We are the two men that fulfill the
Mowedym, just as Yahowah said of them.
And while Yahowah said that both men from
his perspective were great, esteemed,
valuable, empowering, enriching,
that one
was not only greater than the other,
the one who was the Godowl,
the most Godowl, he was king,
he's sovereign, he runs the government,
he's in charged, he's authorized.
And the other is subservient to him,
reports to him, work for him.
just as the moon reflects the sun's light.
Now, you could say, all right,
I have written more than all the prophets
combined,
probably ten times what Dowd has written.
Well,
shouldn't I get a better position than
under the... Heck no!
I'm thrilled!
Okay, I'm making a sacrifice of my body.
Shouldn't that make us more like equals?
No.
Good God.
I was thrilled being anonymous.
And so.
When I read this and I'm reading this
and it's saying, oh, wow,
the greater luminary, he's the sovereign.
He's king.
And the lesser luminary works under him,
for him, serving him.
Oh, my goodness, my heart soared.
And that should be everyone's reaction.
God is giving more responsibility here to
men.
He's not giving any more benefits to men.
We're to work together.
But the one that has the responsibility
has the less beneficial part of the deal.
You know,
if I make a mistake going forward,
I guess, hey, no, I'm reporting to you.
I'm your responsibility.
You're challenged now to fix.
I'll do my best, but, you know,
you're in charge.
Something blows up.
Don't.
What do you want to do?
It's your call, man.
I'll do what you want, but your call.
That is the best news of all.
So if you are a woman saying,
wait a minute,
God says he prefers to work with men,
which he said,
and he prefers to instruct men,
and then it's our responsibility to work
with the women in our lives and instruct
them and support them and teach them and
be responsible for helping them,
then that should...
make your heart sore.
You get the benefits without the
responsibility.
It doesn't mean you don't have to work.
God was really clear.
Women are going to work.
He wanted Chawah to work.
He wanted Chawah to help,
to be a benefit, to make a contribution.
You need to do that,
but you don't bear the responsibility.
It's why I went personally.
I was so
with Yahowah's switch from me being
anonymous as Yada for the first ten years
we did this together to reading about the
Choter and saying, oh my God,
there is no one else in human history
that this can speak of other than me.
And this means I'm not anonymous.
That means that I'm a named player in
your story and an important one.
And that's not good, God.
That means that now I go from having
opportunity to responsibility,
to accountability.
It's just so much more pressure.
And so I would caution anyone that says
this is not fair.
I don't like God's response here to think
it through.
I celebrated knowing that I was
subservient to doubt and that
he can rest assured, as most kings cannot,
that those, at least this guy beneath him,
and I'm certain it's true for every
covenant member, we don't want his job.
We're very happy to serve him.
We're delighted that he has that
responsibility.
And everyone should look at it that way.
So I would encourage you to view it
that way.
And listen, there is,
and God makes this quite clear in his
synopsis of the situation.
that women are more emotional.
Emotion is good, caring, loving,
supporting.
Emotions are really valuable.
Men are more cerebral,
and he makes that point too.
They're more thoughtful.
Now,
that doesn't mean that it's ubiquitous.
In fact,
today it's almost indistinguishable.
That's the way we were designed when we
were operating as we should.
Men were more rational.
Women were more emotional.
That way together,
we experience synergism and we're far more
than we would be independently.
And that's God's view of things.
Now, when it comes to work,
when it comes to being observant,
the first two things that God asked for
here,
being rational is more effective than
being emotional.
When it comes to raising children and
doing the nurturing part of that
relationship and being supportive and
engaging in this relationship,
being loving and emotional is actually
more appropriate and more beneficial.
So we were designed to be not only
compatible,
but mutually beneficial to one another
this way.
This is not a Christian lording over
thing.
This is not an Islamic,
you own them thing.
This is, uh,
different attributes and different
responsibilities.
Yeah.
Well,
almighty said it is not good productive or
beneficial for the man to exist alone by
himself.
Oh,
I'll explain to that just for a moment.
I will engage and continually act on his
behalf,
producing for him a helper and a supporter
and easer, one who assists and serves,
one who is a positive influence,
who rescues, aids, renews,
provides benefits with the strength and
power to accomplish all of these tasks.
Like, similar to, and in the manner,
even according to,
His corresponding counterpart, Negev,
describing that which is straightforward,
right for him, open to him,
close in his proximity.
By Rashid, two-eighteen.
There are three enormously important
insights right here.
First of all,
we go immediately from the discussion of
the trees.
Immediately from the discussion of the
trees.
So that these instructions were given.
To the next line is that it's not
good for a man to be alone.
Breaks my heart.
It really breaks my heart.
What this means is that after Yahowah
communicated those instructions to Adam,
he immediately recognized that Adam wasn't
listening.
He realized that Adam was not willing to
work.
He realized that Adam was not paying any
attention.
He was not observant.
And so for God to say it's not
good for man to be alone,
what does that mean?
What does it mean?
Because I'm going to share something with
you that I don't think anyone's said
before.
Because for God to say this right here
at this part of the story,
that it's not good for man to be
alone, it means that God was leaving man.
He was going to separate himself from man.
He was going to spend more time away
from man than with man.
That's what it means.
And when you think that through,
because that's the only valid conclusion,
because if God was spending all of his
time or most of his time with man,
he would never say it's not good for
man to be alone because man wouldn't have
been alone.
So it means that in immediate aftermath of
God providing instructions to Adam,
God realized that man was not going to
be what he wanted.
that man was not listening,
that man was not observant,
and that man was not contributing.
And therefore,
there was no merit at all in spending
an inordinate amount of times with man.
He was going to have to back away.
This is like getting a goldfish and
putting the goldfish in the bowl and you
see it swim around the bowl three or
four times and blow some bubbles and you
say, oh, that's really neat.
I like having the goldfish in the bowl
and then being so bored with it that
you forget to change the water.
Like an animal in a cage.
Given all the food it could possibly want,
perfect conditions, everything,
and it just sleeps all day and ignores
you.
That's what it means.
And that's why I would call this the
fall of man.
Man had to grow up.
The other things that are interesting is
that when God chose to engage,
he wasn't just letting that goldfish in
the bowl swim on its own and die.
Nope.
He was gonna give that goldfish, the man,
the opportunity through many lives to
become observant,
to engage and make a contribution,
to work.
You know how many hours it takes?
Well, I'll tell you,
a hundred thousand to write.
Thirty-five books,
twenty-five thousand pages of amplified
translations and commentary.
I'm gonna give him a chance to engage,
to make a contribution,
to do something worthwhile,
to show that he is reliable and
dependable.
And so God says,
I'm gonna give a man a helper,
someone to be with that's really far more
ideal for him.
The separation between God and man at that
point was just too enormous.
God would not have a man with whom
he could openly communicate
dearly love accomplished great things with
until doubt three thousand years later and
since that time i don't think there's been
anyone since the closest has been the
growing of this tree of knowledge but in
that sense god cheated he cheated i mean
in a very loving sort of way he
applied his seven spirits to make certain
that it would happen
So there we are.
Now, there's another aspect to this.
When Yahowah says that he created woman as
a supporter and helper of man,
what this says is that since he explained
what he wanted to achieve with Adam,
he wanted Adam to be observant
and he wanted Adam to make a contribution
to work with him.
And he gave Adam instructions that he
wanted him to process and respond
appropriately to.
That was not the purpose of the woman,
was it?
None of these things are directed at God.
The woman's purpose was to support the
man,
to engage in a relationship with the man,
for the man and the woman to be
together.
you can say from this that man was
created to engage in a relationship with
god and flunked it by the way that
opportunity and that woman was was created
to engage in a productive relationship
with man she also flunked that
responsibility but they're very different
very very different also
The Mother Goddess cult wanted to make a
statement where they took Yahowah's words
out of context and they truncated them to
create the myth that because God created
man in his image and that he created
a memorable man and a woman to bore,
that therefore that must also apply to in
his image,
even though it was his image and even
though image, teslem, is masculine.
that that must make God a hermaphrodite
mother and father.
This makes it very clear.
Man was created in the image of God.
Woman was created in the image of man.
She is man's counterpart.
She is man's neged.
She corresponds to man.
All right.
Those are some profound insights.
I can assure you.
And this analysis of our Rasheed Genesis
to a team that what you have just
heard some already some twenty profoundly
important insights.
No one has considered these things
previously.
And they're all valuable in coming to
understand what God is seeking from us.
Because when you understand this as men
and women,
we know what we're supposed to do.
If we want to earn favor with God
again, and we need to earn it,
we need to show that we can be
reliable, that we will listen,
that we will be observant,
that we will engage in a productive way.
I can assure you it's not about belief.
So this is just a continuation of
essential lessons,
because it means that Yahowah created Adam
to enjoy a relationship with him while he
created the woman to be in a relationship
with the man.
Adam was to work with God while Chawah
was to work alongside Adam.
Quite literally,
woman was conceived by God to help and
support man.
And it was in man's image that woman
was created, not God's.
The creation of woman was so basic to
man's needs, the resulting version,
while wonderful,
didn't turn out to be the first choice.
So before creating the woman,
knowing that man couldn't be alone,
he had
designed him for companionship.
He was just inadequate.
So then Yahowah Almighty,
he fashioned and formed out of the earth,
every living animal of the expansive
environment.
In addition to every bird of the sky,
which he then brought to the man in
order to see what he would call them
and how he would greet and how he
would welcome them.
Ma Qara LaHue.
Therefore,
everything for the benefit of the
relationship that the man, Adam,
approached and designated,
called out to and encountered, Qara Lahu,
that became the name and the reputation of
that living soul.
Bab Rashid, Genesis two, nineteen.
So Yahowah at this point is still trying
to help the man.
He is introducing the man to other life
forms.
He is conversing and interacting,
trying to make it work.
We're shown that the man evaluated these
life forms that God had created that
served to define Yahowah's purpose in
creating life because he not only took the
time to share his creative genius with the
man,
he made certain that we would be aware
of this special moment in time.
This is the one interaction that God
shared with us.
What does that tell you about him?
That he's interested in us having an
enjoyable and productive relationship with
animals.
That he loves animals and wanted to share
the amazing nature of animals with us.
And that obviously they had a discussion
with these animals so that Adam could
learn about them and therefore could
appropriately name them based upon their
reputations.
Tells you what we're headed to when we
come back to Eden, doesn't it?
Tells you what God values, which is life.
It tells you that Yahowah is a father
and he wants to share the best of
what he has accomplished.
which is the thing that we as parents
often think,
that when we're parents and we achieve
something that's wonderful,
we want to share it with our children.
So did God.
So it's relevant, however,
that God is not depicted doing any of
these things with the woman.
You can make of that what you will.
So that we don't lose sight of the
reason that we return to this narrative,
you'll notice that just because all of the
animals have souls,
with nephesh being a feminine noun,
it does not turn males into females.
As a matter of fact, with the animals,
they were all categorized under hue
masculine.
Similarly,
while Yahowah has both a nephesh and a
ruach,
both of which are grammatically feminine,
does not alter his projection of his
preferred gender.
He always presents himself as masculine
and singular.
When the mother goddess cult was initially
formed through embittered rebellion,
there was a confabulation of lies.
They not only turned chokmah,
the Hebrew noun denoting wisdom,
into their mother goddess,
they sought to condemn me for not
recognizing the feminine aspects of the
Ruach spirit.
But ladies and gentlemen,
the opposite was true.
I had actually gone too far.
I had made way too much of the
distinction between the feminine and
masculine nouns, especially with Ruach,
which is where they came up with their
methodology and mythology in the first
place.
They accused me of not recognizing the
voice of Spirit Mom when in fact I
had gone too far and I had projected
far too much on the Ruach being feminine.
They lied.
And while I went nowhere near the
absurdity that Yahowah has a hermaphrodite
nature with two personas, two creators,
one a father, the other the mother,
or that the maternal manifestation of
God's nature had a voice,
and that we should try to seek what
she said and speak for her,
I am guilty of over extrapolating,
which has led to what we humorously call
a mamaectomy of the text.
Now,
just as this experience with the animals
was conceived by Yahowah as a learning
experience for Adam,
such as the nature of the Torah and
the Nabium for us.
For example,
I have often considered God's narrative
regarding these trees and the garden and
of Chawah's response,
denoting an entire family hour and the
Yahowah blog just a couple of months ago
to the very nature of Chawah and the
garden and her relationship to Adam.
And I have analyzed every nuance of
Yahowah's instructions of the Choter
through Yasha'yah on a score of occasions,
twenty times.
I recognize that Da'ath,
representing the sixth of the seven
spiritual attributes given to the Choter,
was the name of the tree of knowledge.
I did not notice that the fourth gift
of the Ruach to the Choter, Etza,
was to adroitly identify him with the Etz,
the tree in the garden.
At issue here is perhaps the most
important lesson of all.
The more shamar observant we become,
the more we yada know.
The more we yada,
the more we come to Banah, understand,
through chokmah, thinking intelligently.
Eventually, after decades of study,
we can para,
produce the fruit that is offered by the
ets ha-da'ath, the tree of knowledge.
This is the purpose of the Choter.
making his Nesh sign Yada Yahowah.
Now this is to say,
Yahowah has given us what we need to
process, to know and understand.
But process requires a lifetime of work.
It's not a data dump.
We are not given chokmah,
but instead afforded the means to it.
This is how it will be forevermore.
We need to work at it so that
our study makes a contribution to our
shared knowledge.
And that is what makes eternity
interesting and what makes life
productive.
What makes the relationship enjoyable for
Yahowah.
And that means we must constantly refine
our conclusions based upon the evidence.
The more we learn,
we must correct our mistakes once we're
appraised of more information,
greater understanding,
and then build upon that such that it's
verifiable and true.
It is how we grow.
And without growth, we are, and God also,
cannot be infinite.
We can't even be interesting.
This process has to exist for us and
for God.
So returning to my misappropriation
whereby I pushed the envelope of humor of
Hebrew grammar too far,
which means the mother goddesses flat out
lied.
Regarding Ruach,
my projection of femininity appeared
necessary to explain something that Dowd
later resolved.
I learned more.
I learned something no one had ever seen.
and all of human existence.
In this case, I learned from our king.
At issue was the mechanism behind the
matzah and my confusion over why we were
asked to approach the Isha,
which is the feminine rendering of fire
during the Miqrah.
And since there was a prophetic reference
elsewhere to the Ruach pertaining to an
illuminating apparel in Yasha'yah,
I thought, well,
perhaps that's how God resolved the issue
of our guilt, covering us with it,
projecting this onto the symbolism of the
fire.
However,
matzah is not about the addition of
something,
but instead the removal of the
contaminating fungus of yeast representing
religious and political guilt.
It's not covered over with light.
It's taken into the ultimate darkness.
So the moment I came to realize that
Do's Bashar body fulfilled Pesach,
opening the door to life,
making him the tree of lives,
and that his nephesh soul, feminine,
carried our guilt away,
depositing it in the darkness of Sheowl on
Matzah, never to be seen again,
my conjecture regarding the spirit's
requirement of light became unnecessary
clutter.
Similarly,
I came to realize that I had been
wrong regarding the Ruach departing from
Dowd during his fulfillment of the Miqrah.
That's what I read into.
My God, my God,
why have you forsaken me?
But it's Yahowah separating from his son,
not the spirit.
Yahowah told us explicitly when the Ruach
came upon his son, Dowd,
that he would never leave,
would never separate from him, ever.
And this means that the Ruach protected
Dowd's nephesh in Sheowl and facilitated his
release.
Now, this realization leads to another.
Since the spirit entered Sheowl,
the place of separation from God,
the Ruach cannot be Yahowah.
but instead is a manifestation of his
influence, a projection of his power,
of his protection.
The spirit of Yahowah is the most powerful
and capable tool in the universe.
Yahowah sent his Ruach,
the spirit of Yahowah,
to reside within the Choter.
That does not make the Choter Yahowah.
It does not make the Choter a girly
version of Yahowah.
It doesn't make the Choter a mother.
The spirit of Yahowah is a projection of
Yahowah's influence, his protection.
It's not God.
The spirit of Yahowah is the most powerful
and capable tool
the universe now as for the isha fire
there was a far better interpretation
providing a lesson for us all fire
transforms dead and dying organic material
and transforming it into light and radiant
energy I've shared this on so many of
our programs it is symbolic of the
superior vessel that Yahowah intends for
our souls so that we can discard the
limiting and decaying nature of our
physical bodies
When our nephesh is encapsulated in
radiant energy and light,
we are not only perfected and become
immortal, we are enabled, we're empowered,
we're enriched.
By such a great magnitude in science,
this transformation is measured in the
square of the speed of light.
So this progression from a thoughtful
interpretation to a vastly superior and
evidenced comprehension of Yahowah's
methodology comes with observation and
contemplation, hard work,
building over decades.
And the beauty of this process is that
it becomes exponential.
The more we know and understand,
the better we are equipped to deduce a
myriad of previously unseen insights and
grow in our comprehension of God and then
become much more productive as that tree
of knowledge.
So after having written thirty-five books
based upon uniquely amplified translations
of the oldest extant resources,
with words scribed and scrubbed of man's
religious corruptions,
I've come to learn more about God than
anyone since the last of the prophets
twenty-five centuries ago.
There were thousands of profound and
unheralded insights to share.
with the proper pronunciation of Yahowah's
name and the recognition of his son's
achievement foremost among them.
And as my knowledge and understanding
progressed,
these books were augmented and refined.
I think we'll conclude this program at
this point.
Thank you for listening.